hosting guide for maintainers circle (#70)
cncf/tag-contributor-strategy: maintainers-circle/hosting.md

# Hosting Maintainers Circle

Hosts are responsible for planning and hosting the circle topic they are
running. Below is guidance to help in this process. 

## Planning

### Curating content
1. Check on the [README] and [issue backlog] to see what topics are in the queue
 first. If no topics are left, initiate ideas with the sig in slack. Next step, 
 ask directly in the #maintainers-circle channel as to what folks would like to 
 discuss/learn.

>  2. Add a short bio for the speakers

Author: ```suggestion
 2. Add a short bio for the speakers here -> https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/tree/main/maintainers-circle 
```

Content should not be a sales pitch of any kind. It should match with the goals

> and intent of the group and have at least one 15 minute break out session to so

Reviewer: s/to//

Don't breakout rooms make sense if if the attendees want to break up at least into 2 groups? If the main zoom meeting is interactive enough, is  a breakout room mandatory?

Author: The main room only instead of breakout rooms is fine if under 15 folks show up. anything over and many folks will not have the time to engage or speak. most of our sessions have 20-30 folks.

that this isn't another talk. Networking and learning together is an important 
piece to this. 
The [structure] should follow the model on the README but can be tailored based
on increasing breakout time/interactive reasons or really good content! 

> Try for one speaker that has info/science/data/research/teacher and another that

Reviewer: s/that has /who has a 
s/and/background and 
s/another that/another who
s/that has experience/who has experience

Author: ```suggestion
Try for one speaker who has a science/data/research/teacher background and another who has experience
```

is a CNCF maintainer that has experience with the subject. 

### Logistics and Other Planning 

> 1. Schedule a 15 minute touch base with the speaker over slack or zoom to nail

Reviewer: s/minute/minute meeting to

down the final structure and get a final run of show together. 
2. send the speaker a placeholder calendar invite directly vs having them copy
from CNCF calendar. Invite them to CNCF slack if they are not there already.

> 3. Provide the speaker with a run of show a few days prior to the event/ask if 

Reviewer: On line 27   s/speaker/speakers

they want to meet. 

> ### Calendar and Promotion 

Author: ```suggestion
### Calendar and Promotion  

Promotion should start as soon as the speaker and abstract is confirmed with a save the date
```

1. Ask Amye or another CNCF staff member to change sig-contributor strategy's

> Thursday meeting to [Maintainers Circle] - [topic] in the subject and update

Author: ```suggestion
Thursday meeting to [Maintainers Circle] - [topic] in calendar event name and abstract in the description
```

with content. 
2. Ask Amye to email maintainers@ cncf list with info about the event. Previous
emails can be used as a template. Make sure to over emphasize that other core
decision makers (committee members, etc), reviewers and other maintainer-like
roles are invited and not just authors and/or solely MAINTAINERS.md. 
3. Promote in every -dev and contributor slack channel for each project that you 
can find, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy
4. Tweet about it if thats your thing but with attn to CNCF project maintainers
5. Ask others to spread the word

## Set Up: Day of Event
1. set up a questions thread in #maintainers-circle slack if you think one might
be needed
2. 3+ hours before the event - ping in all -dev, -contributor slack channel for
projects, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy 

> 3. create a hackmd notes file so attendees can have a way to capture links

Author: ```suggestion
3. create a hackmd notes file so attendees can have a way to capture links. this inclusive naming group can be used as a template but modify as you see necessary: https://hackmd.io/vzRv5CyITSKfy2n9LTwM5w 
```

## During Event 

> 0. Make sure to claim host, breakout room capabilities are working, and 

Reviewer: Comprehensive information at: https://is.oregonstate.edu/zoom/training-and-support/faqs
search on page for "key".
It is located on your zoom profile (click on right top corner). Click on the show of eyelid icon to copy!

> 0. Make sure to claim host, breakout room capabilities are working, and 

Author: ```suggestion
0. Make sure to claim host (the TAG chairs have this info; get beforehand), breakout room capabilities are working, and 
```

recording is turned off 
1. Welcome everyone as folks join the line, mention that this won't be recorded,
and that we will start at :03 after. 
2. Kick off at :03-5 depending on the flow of traffic
2.5 Welcome message: hello! thank you for coming, 
not recording but taking notes that will be published later, 
there will be a breakout session where folks can share/learn/whatever activity 
they are doing that day, 
give an overview of the agenda, 
where folks can ask questions, 
add a disclaimer that we are not licensed professional doctors, lawyers, etc 
(unless the speaker is!); this is based on shared experiences.  
Lastly, if anyone has questions and then start the show.
3. Manage time for the speaker and then start to  get everyone in breakrooms at 
the right time
4. If you go into a breakroom for hosting/moderating, you can see if others come
in the main room for breakroom assigments by looking at the breakout zoom popup.
You don't need to stay in that room the entire time. 

> 5. Continue the above cycle for another round or whatever the agenda is shown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Continue the above cycle for another round or whatever is shown on the agenda.
```

> 6. Get everyone back into the main room after the time is up from the second

Reviewer 2: Are we asking that there always be a second breakout room?

Author: strive for it but if content doesn't allow for it then no. the reason for the breakout rooms is so folks can interact; having only one means 15 mins of engagement only per session and targeting 30 seems to be valuable to folks.

breakout room and proceed with wrap up:  
6.5. Speaker may want to do a follow up from the last sesssion, ask for a final
call for any maintainer announcements, thank the speaker and the participants!!,
announce next date of the maintainers circle and other info you have about it

 ## After Event

> 1. Scrub and format notes  

Reviewer: Ask for a volunteer or round robin (preferably)!

> 1. Scrub and format notes  

Author: ```suggestion
1. Scrub and format notes to take out names, identifiers, add full/correct links to resources, etc. 
```

2. Post the notes #maintainers-circle

> 3. Make sure next host is lined up

Author: ```suggestion
3. Make sure next host is lined up and report to the TAG in slack or at a meeting so Chairs can report on it
```

roles are invited and not just authors and/or solely MAINTAINERS.md. 
3. Promote in every -dev and contributor slack channel for each project that you 
can find, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy
4. Tweet about it if thats your thing but with attn to CNCF project maintainers
5. Ask others to spread the word

## Set Up: Day of Event
1. set up a questions thread in #maintainers-circle slack if you think one might
be needed
2. 3+ hours before the event - ping in all -dev, -contributor slack channel for
projects, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy 
3. create a hackmd notes file so attendees can have a way to capture links. this inclusive naming group can be used as a template but modify as you see necessary: https://hackmd.io/vzRv5CyITSKfy2n9LTwM5w 

## During Event 
0. Make sure to claim host (the TAG chairs have this info; get beforehand), breakout room capabilities are working, and 
recording is turned off 
1. Welcome everyone as folks join the line, mention that this won't be recorded,
and that we will start at :03 after. 
2. Kick off at :03-5 depending on the flow of traffic

> 2.5 Welcome message: hello! thank you for coming, 

Author: ```suggestion
  
  Sample script:  
  Welcome message: hello! thank you for coming, 
```

not recording but taking notes that will be published later, 
there will be a breakout session where folks can share/learn/whatever activity 
they are doing that day, 
give an overview of the agenda, 
where folks can ask questions, 
add a disclaimer that we are not licensed professional doctors, lawyers, etc 
(unless the speaker is!); this is based on shared experiences.  

> Lastly, if anyone has questions and then start the show.

Reviewer 3: This is marked as changed, but I don't see any changes?  Among other things, it still has a line marker of "2.5" which doesn't format correctly on the site ... lines need to be whole numbers.

roles are invited and not just authors and/or solely MAINTAINERS.md. 
3. Promote in every -dev and contributor slack channel for each project that you 
can find, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy
4. Tweet about it if thats your thing but with attn to CNCF project maintainers
5. Ask others to spread the word

## Set Up: Day of Event
1. set up a questions thread in #maintainers-circle slack if you think one might
be needed
2. 3+ hours before the event - ping in all -dev, -contributor slack channel for
projects, #maintainers-circle, #toc, #sig-contributor-strategy 
3. create a hackmd notes file so attendees can have a way to capture links. this inclusive naming group can be used as a template but modify as you see necessary: https://hackmd.io/vzRv5CyITSKfy2n9LTwM5w 

## During Event 
0. Make sure to claim host (the TAG chairs have this info; get beforehand), breakout room capabilities are working, and 
recording is turned off 
1. Welcome everyone as folks join the line, mention that this won't be recorded,
and that we will start at :03 after. 
2. Kick off at :03-5 depending on the flow of traffic
  
  Sample script:  

>   Welcome message: hello! thank you for coming, 

Author: ```suggestion
  Welcome message: hello! thank you for coming, not recording but taking notes that will be published later, 
 there will be a breakout session where folks can share/learn/whatever activity they are doing that day, give an overview of the agenda, where folks can ask questions, add a disclaimer that we are not licensed professional doctors, lawyers, etc (unless the speaker is!); this session is based on shared experiences. Lastly, if anyone has questions and then start the show.
```

not recording but taking notes that will be published later, 
there will be a breakout session where folks can share/learn/whatever activity 
they are doing that day, 
give an overview of the agenda, 
where folks can ask questions, 
add a disclaimer that we are not licensed professional doctors, lawyers, etc 
(unless the speaker is!); this is based on shared experiences.  
Lastly, if anyone has questions and then start the show.

> 3. Manage time for the speaker and then start to  get everyone in breakrooms at 

Author: ```suggestion
  
3. Manage time for the speaker and then start to  get everyone in breakrooms at 
```
